host pg 28
	Computing devices/servers that store and transmit information
	with the internet. Run application programs.

end system pg 28
	Same as host
	
communication links pg 29
	Made of different types of physical media
	including coaxial cable, optic fiber, copper wire, and radio spectrum
	
packet switches pg 29, 30
	Takes a packet arring on one of its incoming communication links
	and forwards that packet on one of its outgoing communication links.
	Routers and link-layer switches are two types of packet switches.
	Facilitate the exchange of data among end systems, they are not 
	concerned with the application that is the source or sink of data.

transmission rate pg 30
	Rate of transmitting data through communication links

packet pg 30
	Segments of data, each with a header byte, being sent from 
	one end system to another
	
router pg 30
	Forward packets toward their ultimate destinations.
	Typically used in the network core.
	
link-layer switch pg 30
	Forward packets toward their ultimate destinations.
	Typically used in access networks.

route pg 30
	The sequence of communication links and packet switches traversed
	by a packet from the sending end system to the recieving end
	system

path pg 30
	Same as route
	
ISP (Internet Service Provider) pg 30
	A network of packet switches and communication links.
	Provide a variety of types of network access to end systems.
	They also provide internet to content providers.
	
protocol pg 31, 33 - 35
	A protocol defines the format and the order of 
	messages exchanged between two or more communicating 
	entities, as well as the actions taken on the transmission 
	and/or receipt of a message or other event

TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) pg 31
	Provides reliable transport, control flow, cingestion control, does
	not provide timing, minimum throughput guarantee, security, it is 
	connection-oriented (setup required between client and server
	processes).

IP (Internet Protocol) pg 31
	Specifies the format of the packets that are sent and recieved
	among routers and end systems.

internet standards pg 31
	It's specifications that has been approved by the Internet
	Engineering Task Force (IETF). Such standard helps to 
	promote a consistent and universal use if the internet worldwide.

RFC (Requests For Comments) pg 31
	The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) standards documents.
	Started out as general requests for comments to resolve network
	and protocol design problems that faced the precursor of the 
	internet. Tend to be quite technical and detailed.
	They define protocols such as TCP, IP, HTTP, and SMTP.
	
distributed applications pg 31
	Including Internet messaging, mapping with real-time road-traffic 
	information, music streaming from the cloud, movie and television 
	streaming, online social networks, video conferencing, 
	multi-person games, and location-based recommendation systems
	The applications are said to be distributed applications, since 
	they involve multiple end systems that exchange data with 
	each other.
	
API (Application Program Interface) pg 119 - 120
	A socket is the interface between the application layer and the
	transport layer within a host. It is also referred to as the API
	between the application and the network, since the socket is 
	the programming interface with which network applications are 
	built.

network protocols pg 34
	The transmission and reciept of messages, and set of conventional
	actions taken when these messages are sent and recieved. The
	entities exchanging messages and taking actions are hardware 
	or software components of some device.

network edge pg 36
	The end systems and the applications they run are considered to
	be in the network edge. As opposed to the network core.

clients pg 38
	Host(end system).
	Tend to be desktop and mobile PCs, smartphones, and so on.
	
servers pg 38
	Hosts(end systems).
	Tend to be more powerful machines that store and distribute Web
	pages, stream video, relay e-mail, and so on.
	Store and distribute content.
	
access networks pg 28
	The network that physically connects an end system to the first
	router on a path from the end system to any other distant end
	system.
	
DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) pg 40 - 41
	Internet access that makes use of the telco's existing 
	local telephone infrastructure.
	
cable internet access pg 41
	Makes use of the cable television company's existing cable
	television infrastructure. Requires cable modems.
	
HFC (Hybrid Fiber Coax) pg 41
	Both fiber and coaxial cable
	
FTTH (Fiber To The Home) pg 42
	Provide an optical fiber path from the CO directly to the home.
	
Ethernet pg 43 - 44
	A system for connecting a number of computer systems to form a
	local area network, with protocols to control the passing of 
	information and to avoid simultaneous transmission by two or 
	more systems.
	
WiFi pg 43 - 44
	Is a family of radio technologies commonly used for wireless
	local area networking (WLAN) of devices.

physical medium pg 45 - 46
	can take many shapes and forms and does not have to be of 
	the same type for each transmitter-receiver pair along the
	path. Examples of physical media include twisted-pair 
	copper wire, coaxial cable, multimode fiber-optic cable, 
	terrestrial radio spectrum, and satellite radio spectrum.
	Physical media fall into two categories: guided media and 
	unguided media.

guided media pg 46
	the waves are guided along a solid medium, such as a 
	fiber-optic cable, a twisted-pair copper wire, or a 
	coaxial cable.

unguided media pg 46
	the waves propagate in the atmosphere and in outer 
	space, such as in a wireless LAN or a digital satellite 
	channel.

UTP (Unshielded Twisted Pair) pg 46
	commonly used for computer networks within a building,
	that is, for LANs.

coaxial cable pg 47
	Consists of two copper conductors (like twisted pair).
	Can achieve high data transmission rates.

shared medium pg 47
	A number of end systems can be connected directly to the 
	coaxial cable, with each of the end systems receiving whatever
	is sent by the other end systems

fiber optics pg 47
	A thin, flexible medium that conducts pulses of light, with each
	pulse representing a bit. A single optical fiber can support 
	tremendous bit rates, up to tens or even hundreds of gigabits per
	second. They are immune to electromagnetic interference, have 
	very low signal attenuation up to 100 kilometers, and are very 
	hard to tap.

terrestrial radio pg 47 - 48
	can be broadly classified into three groups: those that operate
	over very short distance (e.g., with one or two meters); those
	that operate in local areas, typically spanning from ten to a
	few hundred meters; and those that operate in the wide area, 
	spanning tens of kilometers.

satellite radio pg 48
	A communication satellite links two or more Earth-based microwave
	transmitter/ receivers, known as ground stations. The satellite
	receives transmissions on one frequency band, regenerates the 
	signal using a repeater, and transmits the signal on another 
	frequency. Two types of satellites are used in 
	communications: geostationary satellites and LEO satellites.

geostationary satellite pg 48
	Permanently remain above the same spot on Earth. This stationary 
	presence is achieved by placing the satellite in orbit at 
	36,000 kilometers above Earth’s surface. This huge distance
	from ground station through satellite back to ground station 
	introduces a substantial signal propagation delay of 
	280 milliseconds. Nevertheless, satellite links, which can operate
	at speeds of hundreds of Mbps, are often used in areas without 
	access to DSL or cable-based Internet access.

LEO satellite (Low-Earth Orbiting Satellite) pg 48
	Are placed much closer to Earth and do not remain permanently 
	above one spot on Earth. They rotate around 
	Earth (just as the Moon does) and may communicate with each 
	other, as well as with ground stations. To provide continuous 
	coverage to an area, many satellites need to be placed in orbit. 
	There are currently many low-altitude communication systems in 
	development. LEO satellite technology may be used for Internet 
	access sometime in the future

messages pg 50
	Can contain anything the application designer wants. 
	May perform a control function or can contain data.
	
store-and-forward pg 50
	means that the packet switch must receive the entire packet 
	before it can begin to transmit the first bit of the packet 
	onto the outbound link.
	
output buffer pg 51
	Stores packet that the router is about to send into a link

output queue pg 51
	Same as output buffer
	
queuing delays pg 51
	If an arriving packet needs to be transmitted onto a link but 
	finds the link busy with the transmission of another packet, the 
	arriving packet must wait in the output buffer.
	
packet loss pg 52
	Either the arriving packet or one of the already-queued packets 
	will be dropped. Occurs when the output buffer is completely full.
	
forwarding table pg 53
	each router has a forwarding table that
	maps destination addresses (or portions of the destination 
	addresses) to that router’s outbound links.
	When a packet arrives at a router, the router examines the 
	address and searches its forwarding table, using this destination
	address, to find the appropriate outbound link. The router then 
	directs the packet to this outbound link.

circuit switching pg 54
	The resources needed along a path (buffers, link transmission rate)
	to provide for communication between the end systems are reserved 
	for the duration of the communication session between the end 
	systems.
	
packet switching pg 54
	The resources needed along a path (buffers, link transmission rate)
	to provide for communication between the end systems are NOT
	reserved for the duration of the communication session between 
	the end systems.
	
circuit pg 54
	Connection for which the switches on the path between the
	sender and receiver maintain connection state for that connection.
	
end-to-end connection pg 54
	Uses a circuit-switched network to directly connect two users
	
FDM (Frequency-Division Multiplexing) pg 55 - 56
	With FDM, the frequency spectrum of a link is divided up among 
	the connections established across the link. Specifically, the
	link dedicates a frequency band to each connection for the
	duration of the connection.
	With FDM, each circuit continuously gets a fraction of the 
	bandwidth.

TDM (Time-Division Multiplexing) pg 55 - 56
	For a TDM link, time is divided into frames of fixed duration, 
	and each frame is divided into a fixed number of time slots. 
	When the network establishes a connection across a link, the 
	network dedicates one time slot in every frame to this connection.
	These slots are dedicated for the sole use of that connection, 
	with one time slot available for use (in every frame) to transmit
	the connection’s data.
	With TDM, each circuit gets all of the bandwidth periodically 
	during brief intervals of time (that is, during slots)

bandwidth pg 55
	The width of the frequency band.
	
silent periods pg 56
	A time when nothing is needed or requested. Most wasteful time
	period when resources were already reserved during it.
	
customer pg 59
	Pays provider for access
	
provider pg 59
	Provides access to a customer
	
regional ISP pg 59
	In reality, although some ISPs do have impressive global coverage
	and do directly connect with many access ISPs, no ISP has presence
	in each and every city in the world. Instead, in any given region,
	there may be a regional ISP to which the access ISPs in the region
	connect. Each regional ISP then connects to tier-1 ISPs.
	
tier-1 ISP pg 59
	Tier-1 ISPs are similar to our (imaginary) global transit ISP; 
	but tier-1 ISPs, which actually do exist, do not have a presence
	in every city in the world. There are approximately a dozen 
	tier-1 ISPs, including Level 3 Communications, AT&T, Sprint, 
	and NTT.
	
PoP for ISP (Point of Presence) pg 60
	is simply a group of one or more routers (at the same location)
	in the provider’s network where customer ISPs can connect into 
	the provider ISP.
	
multi-homed ISP pg 60
	To connect to two or more provider ISPs.
	When an ISP multi-homes, it can continue to send and receive
	packets into the Internet even if one of its providers has a 
	failure.
	
peer pg 60
	To reduce these costs, a pair of nearby ISPs at the same level 
	of the hierarchy can peer, that is, they can directly connect 
	their networks together so that all the traffic between them 
	passes over the direct connection rather than through upstream
	intermediaries.
	
IXP (Internet Exchange Points) pg 60
	A meeting point where multiple ISPs can peer together.
	
content provider networks pg 60 - 61
	Google is an example of one.
	Content providers are customers of lower-tier ISPs.
	
nodal processing delay pg 62 - 63
	The time required to examine the packet’s header and determine 
	where to direct the packet is part of the processing delay. 
	The processing delay can also include other factors, such as the
	time needed to check for bit-level errors in the packet that 
	occurred in transmitting the packet’s bits from the upstream
	node to router A.
	
queuing delay pg 63
	At the queue, the packet experiences a queuing delay as it waits
	to be transmitted onto the link. The length of the queuing delay
	of a specific packet will depend on the number of earlier-arriving
	packets that are queued and waiting for transmission onto the link.
	If the queue is empty and no other packet is currently being 
	transmitted, then our packet’s queuing delay will be zero. On the
	other hand, if the traffic is heavy and many other packets are 
	also waiting to be transmitted, the queuing delay will be long.
	transmission delay
	
propagation delay pg 64
	The time required to propagate from the beginning of the link to 
	the next router.
	
total nodal delay pg 62
	The total of adding nodal processing delay, queuing delay,
	transmission delay, and propagation delay
	
traffic intensity pg 66
	La/R
	La = The average rate at which bits arrive at the queue
	R = transmission Rate
	Plays an important role in estimating the extent of the 
	queuing delay.
	
packet drop pg 68
	The packet is not kept or placed into a queue because it is full.
	
packet loss pg 68
	Same as packet drop
	From an end-system viewpoint, a packet loss will look like a 
	packet having been transmitted into the network core but never
	emerging from the network at the destination.
	
traceroute pg 69
	a simple program that can run in any Internet host. When the 
	user specifies a destination hostname, the program in the source
	host sends multiple, special packets toward that destination. 
	As these packets work their way toward the destination, they pass
	through a series of routers. When a router receives one of 
	these special packets, it sends back to the source a short
	message that contains the name and address of the router.
	
instantaneous throughput pg 71
	The rate (in bits/sec) at which the target host is receiving 
	the file.
	
average throughput pg 71
	If the file consists of F bits and the transfer takes T seconds 
	for the target host to receive all F bits, then the average 
	throughput of the file transfer is F/T bits/sec.
	
bottleneck link pg 72
	two-link network, the throughput is min{R , R }, that is, 
	it is the transmission rate of the bottleneck link
	
layered architecture pg 75 - 77
	Each layer provides its service by (1) performing certain actions
	within that layer and by (2) using the services of the layer 
	directly below it

service model pg 77
	the services that a layer offers to the layer above
	
internet protocol stack pg 78
	consists of five layers: the physical, link, network, 
	transport, and application layers
	
ISO OSI protocol stack 
	(ISO = International Organization for Standardization)
	(OSI = Open Systems Interconnections)
	The seven layers that he computer networks are organized around.
	The seven layers of the OSI reference model are: application 
	layer, presentation layer, session layer, transport layer, 
	network layer, data link layer, and physical layer.
	
application-layer message pg 78 ,82
	The message an application sends from the end system
	Is where network applications and their application-layer 
	protocols reside.
	
transport-layer segment pg 79, 82
	The application-layer message and the transport-layer header 
	information together constitute the transportlayer
	segment

network-layer datagram pg 79, 82
	The transport layer then passes the segment to the network 
	layer, which adds network-layer header information such as 
	source and destination end system addresses, creating a 
	network-layer datagram.
	Is responsible for moving network-layer packets known as 
	datagrams from one host to another.
	
link-layer frame pg 70 - 80, 82
	The datagram is then passed to the link layer, 
	which (of course!) will add its own link-layer header 
	information and create a link-layer frame.
	Link layer delivers the datagram to the next node along the route.
	At this next node, the link layer passes the datagram up to the 
	network layer.
	Link-layer packets = frames 
	
payload field pg 82
	Typically a packet from the layer above.